Levels of AGI: Operationalizing Progress on the Path to AGI Google DeepMind January 2024 https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02462

First is describes 6 principles to consider
1. Focus on Capabilities, not Processes. -focus on what an AGI can accomplish, not on the mechanism by which it accomplishes tasks.
2. Focus on Generality and Performance. 
3. Focus on Cognitive and Metacognitive Tasks. (Don’t worry about robotics at this moment)
4. Focus on Potential, not Deployment. 
5. Focus on Ecological Validity. Tasks that can be used to benchmark progress toward AGI are critical to operationalizing any proposed definition. 
6. Focus on the Path to AGI, not a Single Endpoint. 

NextLevels of AGI
Level 0: No AI Narrow Non-AI
Level 1: Emerging:equal to or somewhat better than an unskilled human (this is where we are with openAI in the broad range of things)
Level 2: Competent:at least 50th percentile of skilled adults
Level 3: Expert:at least 90th percentile of skilled adults
Level 4: Virtuoso: at least 99th percentile of skilled adults
Level 5: Superhuman:outperforms 100% of humans ( this is where we are in the narrow ranges of things with alpha fold )

And lastly as AI improves humans use it differently 
Autonomy Level 0: No A Ihuman does every- thing
Autonomy Level 1: AI as a Tool human fully controls task and uses AI to automate mundane sub-tasks
Autonomy Level 2: AI as a Consultant AI takes on a substantive role, but only when invoked by a human
Autonomy Level 3: AI as a Collaborator co-equal human-AI collaboration; inter- active coordination of goals & tasks
Autonomy Level 4: AI as an ExpertAI drives interaction; human provides guidance & feedback or performs subtasks
Autonomy Level 5: AI as an Agent fully autonomous AI


OPENAI 5 levels july 2024

What are the 5 steps to AGI?
Level 1: Chatbots

The first of the five levels is for “Chatbots,” or “AI with conversational language”. This was achieved with GPT-3.5 in the first version of ChatGPT and was largely possible even before that, just not as effectively or with as much of a natural conversation.

Level 2: Reasoners
Level 2 AIs are the reasoners. OpenAI says these are capable of “human-level problem solving,” across a broad range of areas, not specific to one or two tasks. 

Level 3: Agents
Level 3 is when the AI models begin to develop the ability to create content or perform actions without human input, or at least at the general direction of humans. Sam Altman, OpenAI CEO has previously hinted that GPT-5 might be an agent-based AI system. 

Level 4: Innovators
Level 4 is where the AI becomes more innovative and capable of "aiding in invention". This could be where AI adds to the sum of human knowledge rather than simply draws from what has already been created or shared. 

Level 5: Organizations
The final stage, and the point where AGI can be said to be reached is when an AI model is capable of running an entire organization on its own without human input. 
To achieve this level of capability it needs to have all the abilities and skills of the previous stages plus broad intelligence. To run an organization it would need to be able to understand all the independent parts and how they work together.
